# Island_MST
###A script to calculate the minimum spanning tree for a graph generated from shapefiles

####Two main scripts are included.

1. `shp_to_csv_distances.py` converts a shapefile of features into a csv matrix that has the shapefile feature ids listed on the first column and first row. The smallest straightline distance between each pair or features is recorded in the matrix. This distance is only recorded once (to the right of the diagonal) to reduce the amount of time taken to process many features. The script runs a parallel map function to generate these distances with one worker process for each cpu core on the host machine. *Note: paths are currently hardcoded in. TODO: change this`  

2. `main.py` takes two mandatory arguments; the input matrix distances file as generated by `shp_to_csv_distances.py` and the id of the feature for which a Minimum Spanning Tree is generated. The option `-p` and `-o outputfile.csv` can also be included to print the result to stdout and to specify the output file of the script, respectively. This script uses Djikstra's algorithm to calculate the minimum distance between all features and some feature (passed as id) when only counting the distance between them. For an island dataset, this can be thought of as the minimum distance across water to get from every island to some single single island. This script outputs a csv file with each id of the features in the input file listed, the distance to the passed in feature id, and the id of the previous feature visited on the path to the passed in id feature.
